Small rotating drum example (#519)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/examples/dem/3d-small-scale-rotating-drum/3d-small-scale-rotating-drum.rst

Parameter File
--------------

Mesh
~~~~~

In this example, we choose a ``cylinder`` grid type to create a cylinder. Grid arguments are the radius of the cylinder (0.056 m) and half-length (0.051 m), respectively.  The grid is refined 3 times using the ``set initial refinement`` parameters. The ``expand particle-wall contact search`` is used in concave geometries to enable extended particle-wall contact search with boundary faces of neighbor cells for particles located in each boundary cell (for more details see `Rotating Drum example <../rotating-drum/rotating-drum.html>`_).

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh
        set type                 				= dealii
        set grid type      	     				= cylinder
        set grid arguments       				= 0.056:0.051
        set initial refinement   				= 3
    end

Packing Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> An insertion box is defined inside the cylindrical domain, inserting 8000 particles every 0.5 seconds while the cylinder is at rest. It is important to note the size of the insertion box to make sure it is completely inside our geometry. Otherwise, particles will be lost during the insertion stage.

Reviewer: Can you refer to another example that explains the insertion box setup? Maybe packing in a cylinder would be a good one.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection insertion info
    	set insertion method				        = non_uniform
    	set inserted number of particles at each time step      = 8000
    	set insertion frequency            		 	= 100000
    	set insertion box minimum x            	 	= -0.05
    	set insertion box minimum y            	        = 0.
    	set insertion box minimum z            	        = -0.04
    	set insertion box maximum x            	        = 0.05
    	set insertion box maximum y           	 	= 0.04
    	set insertion box maximum z            	        = 0.04
    	set insertion distance threshold			= 1.1
    	set insertion random number range			= 0.05
    	set insertion random number seed			= 19
    end

Restart files are written once the packing ends. The restart files are used to start the DEM simulation with the imposed rotating boundary condition.

Lagrangian Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The particles are mono-dispersed with a radius of 0.0015 m and a density of 2500 kg/m3, respectively. All other particles' physical parameters are taken arbitrary and should be changed based on the physical properties and the experimental values obtained through calibration.

Reviewer: You could say "In this example, we adopt arbitrary values for the physical properties of the particles.". I wouldn't mention the future measurement of the physical properties of the particles for this example.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection lagrangian physical properties
        set gx            		 						= 0.0
        set gy            		 						= -9.81
        set gz            		 						= 0.0
        set number of particle types	                = 1
            subsection particle type 0
            set size distribution type					= uniform
                set diameter            	 			= 0.003
                set number              				= 20000
                set density particles  	 				= 2500
                set young modulus particles         	= 100000000
                set poisson ratio particles          	= 0.24
                set restitution coefficient particles	= 0.97
                set friction coefficient particles      = 0.3
                set rolling friction particles         	= 0.01
        end
        set young modulus wall            				= 100000000
        set poisson ratio wall            				= 0.24
        set restitution coefficient wall           		= 0.85
        set friction coefficient wall         			= 0.35
        set rolling friction wall         	      	  	= 0.01
    end

Model Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The load balancing method used is the dynamic method. This method checks frequently if load balancing should be applied based on a user inputted frequency. Load balancing is dynamically applied if a certain condition is applied. More details regarding load balancing are explained in the `Rotating Drum example <../rotating-drum/rotating-drum.html>`_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we use the ``dynamic`` load balancing method. This method checks frequently if load balancing should be applied based on a user inputted frequency. Load balancing is dynamically applied if a certain condition is applied. More details regarding load balancing are explained in the `Rotating Drum example <../rotating-drum/rotating-drum.html>`_. 
```

Reviewer: I feel "Load balancing is dynamically applied if a certain condition is applied" is a bit generalistic. I would explain the conditions here, but If you don't want to explain it you can just point to another section in the documentation where it is explained (https://lethe-cfd.github.io/lethe/parameters/dem/model_parameters.html).

.. code-block:: text

    subsection model parameters
      set contact detection method 		   	 = dynamic
      set dynamic contact search size coefficient	 = 0.8
      set neighborhood threshold			 = 1.3
      set load balance method				 = dynamic
      set load balance threshold			 = 0.5
      set dynamic load balance check frequency		 = 10000
      set particle particle contact force method         = hertz_mindlin_limit_overlap
      set particle wall contact force method             = nonlinear
      set integration method				 = velocity_verlet
    end

Boundary Condition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The rotation of the cylinder is applied using a rotational boundary condition with a value of 1 rad/s over the x axis. Based on deal.II boundary colouring, the hull of the cylinder (rotating drum) has an id = 0.

Reviewer: I would add a hyperlink to the section on deal II documentation.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection DEM boundary conditions
      set number of boundary conditions         = 1
        subsection boundary condition 0
            set boundary id					= 0
            set type              				= rotational
            set rotational speed				= 1
            set rotational vector x				= 1
            set rotational vector y				= 0
            set rotational vector z				= 0
        end
    end

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The end time of the simulation is 5 seconds in real time. We set the time equal to 5 seconds as the simulation is restarted after the packing dem simulation which was run for 2 seconds in real time.

Reviewer: The real-time packing could be moved to the packing section.

> The end time of the simulation is 5 seconds in real time. We set the time equal to 5 seconds as the simulation is restarted after the packing dem simulation which was run for 2 seconds in real time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The end time of the simulation is set to 5 seconds in real-time. Since the simulation restarts after the 2 seconds of packing, the actual rotation of the drum will be simulated for 3 seconds.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
      set time step                 		 = 5e-6
      set time end       			 = 5
      set log frequency				 = 2000
      set output frequency            		 = 10000
      set output path                  	 	 = ./output_dem/
    end

Running the Simulation
-----------------------

> The simulation is launched on two steps, the first step packs the particle in the cylinder. The second step rotates the drum and simulates the movement of the particles. The simulation could have been performed in a single step, however; doing it this way allows us to use the restart files of the packing to run the simulation using DEM for a dry simulation and a CFD-DEM for a wet simulation without having to pack the particles twice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulation is launched in two steps: the first step packs the particle in the cylinder, while the second step rotates the drum and simulates the movement of the particles. The simulation could have been performed in a single step, however; doing it this way allows us to use the restart files of the packing to run the simulation using DEM for a dry simulation and a CFD-DEM for a wet simulation without having to pack the particles twice.
```
